The coronavirus pandemic creates an impossible task for Scottish football
administrators - how do we end the season fairly? How can we ensure that no club
finds itself in a lower tier than it was hoping to be in at the conclusion of
the 2019/20 season? Within the current league structure, there is no right
answer to this question.

But what if we restructure? What if we implement a structure where every single
club ends up in the highest tier they could possibly have hoped for? Clearly, we
cannot do this without enlarging the leagues. A 14 or 16 team top league has
been talked about, but this is an uninspiring compromise which fails to satisfy
fans who for years have been begging for a structure which gives just two games
a season against each team in their league. We should take this opportunity to
go further, to tackle the deeper structural problems within our game.

We propose that there should be only one national league - a top tier of 18
clubs. Below this, the second tier would split into Northern and Southern
Divisions of a similar size. Our current structure of four national leagues is
modelled on the English system, but we have neither enough people nor enough
viable professional clubs to sustain this.

In the past decade, Annan Athletic have played 40 matches against Elgin City.
This involves a 514-mile round trip for the away club and their supporters. For
clubs whose average attendances are in the region of 500, this is a needless
expense, with no other purpose than to prop up the current league structure.

There's a reason why local derbies are a thing - the short distances allow for
large away crowds and intense atmospheres. It's hard to get excited about
travelling 514 miles on a Tuesday night for a mid-table clash against a team
you've played three times already in the past year.

With our proposal, no team outside the top tier would play regular league
fixtures against clubs at the other end of the country. While some clubs might
feel a loss of status by no longer playing in a national league, the top two
tiers would contain 54 clubs. Small clubs would suddenly find themselves in the
second tier, with the added prestige that would bring.

Small clubs can suddenly start to dream that one good season will take them to
the Premier League. We can end the stratification of Scottish football and the
inequities it creates. We can provide more opportunities for young Scottish
footballers to play at the top level, honing their skills to better serve the
national team.

In this document, we will set out how all of this can be achieved, if we dare to
take the bold steps required.
