We propose that there should be a pyramid of leagues in Scotland, with the
Premier League at its apex. Below that there should be a second tier consisting
of two leagues. These could be called the Northern and Southern Leagues, or
Highland and Lowland Leagues, or anything else that people are happy with. Each
of these two leagues would have two feeder leagues below it, giving a third tier
of four leagues.


### The Premier League

We propose that this would have 18 teams, though 20 would also be a possibility.
Each team would play each other team twice, making a total of 34 games each (38
if we go with 20 teams). The bottom three teams would be relegated each season,
and would be replaced by the winners of the two second-tier leagues plus the
winner of a playoff involving those leagues' 2nd and 3rd placed teams.

A frequently-cited argument against such a large league is that it provides only
two Celtic-Rangers derby matches each season compared to the current four, a
potential deal-breaker for broadcasters. If four Celtic-Rangers derbies are a
must, we can have extra fixtures between teams close to each other in the final
standings.

Every season, the teams who finished 1st and 2nd last season play an extra two
games against each other, the same with 3rd and 4th, 5th and 6th etc. This would
take us to 36 games. We could expand this slightly and make it 1st/2nd/3rd,
4th/5th/6th etc. This would give 38 games a season, and simplify questions
around how to split up the newly-promoted teams.

By basing this off of the previous season's standings, we can spread these
matches throughout the season and avoid any public safety issues arising from a
Celtic-Rangers title decider. This does raise an issue that some teams
will have harder fixture lists than others, but as this would provide a slight
advantage to the weaker teams it would serve to make the league more
competitive. It would also create more top-of-the-table clashes and more
relegation six-pointers. More games that matter, fewer games that don't.


### Tier Two

In this tier, we have two leagues - for the sake of argument let's call them the
North/South divisions. Each league again has 18 or 20 teams. The winner of each
league gains automatic promotion, 2nd and 3rd go into a four-team playoff for
the final promotion place. As with the Premier League, the bottom three teams
are automatically relegated.

This creates a problem for maintaining a constant league size: if a Northern
team wins the playoff but three Southern teams get relegated, that's a net gain
of two teams in the Southern Division, and a net loss of two in the Northern.
This can be resolved in the promotion structure from the leagues below. More on
that in the section on Tier Three.

Based on current form, the Southern Division might have Greenock Morton at the
top and Albion Rovers at the bottom, while the Northern Division could have
Montrose at the top and Huntly at the bottom. Note that the bottom Southern team
is currently much higher in the existing pyramid than the bottom Northern team -
this reflects the historic bias of the SFL/SPFL towards having more central belt
teams with most northern teams competing in the Highland league.


### Tier Three

Tier Three would consist of four leagues - a Northeastern, Northwestern,
Southeastern and Southwestern league. The top teams at this level would be teams
which are currently below the SPFL League Two, and so it would make sense for
these leagues to be administered separately from the top two tiers, and also for
each of the four regions to be administered separately from the others. This is
covered in more detail in the section on Governance.

The rest of this section deals with some of the slightly complicated mechanics
around promotion and relegation and keeping the leagues balanced. For readers
not interested in these finer points, this part can be skipped.

As the third tier absorbs teams relegated from, and provides teams for promotion
to, the second tier, it has an important function to perform in keeping the
league size constant at that level. Each of the Northern and Southern Divisions
will have three teams relegated out, one or two teams promoted out, and anywhere
between zero and three teams relegated in - meaning they will need anywhere
between one and five teams to be promoted in to make up the numbers.

In order to support this, playoffs should be played between the two 1st-placed,
the two 2nd-placed, and the two 3rd-placed teams from the leagues that feed into
each of the Northern and Southern Divisions. This would result in a ranking from
1st to 6th and allow the appropriate one, two, three, four or five teams to be
awarded promotion, depending on what happens between tiers one and two.

Each regional football association would have to design a league structure which
can handle the variation that can arise from having anywhere between zero and
three teams relegated in, and anywhere between zero and three teams promoted
out. This might involve having a league with a variable size, or again having
variable promotion requirements from the tier below.
