In order to administer the various competitions involved in this new league
structure, various organisations would need to exist. The existing
administrators of the SFA and SPFL will have an idea of how the finer points of
this will be carried out, but here we will set out a high-level overview of the
organisations and responsibilities involved.


### The Scottish Football Pyramid

The Scottish Football Pyramid (**SFP**) would replace the existing Scottish
Professional Football League (**SPFL**), and would have responsibility for the
governance of the top two tiers of league football. At the end of each season,
they will relegate three teams each from the Northern and Southern Divisions,
and organise promotion playoffs involving the 12 promotion candidates provided
by the four regional leagues in the third tier.


### The regional football associations

In the third tier, the pyramid has four different regions. Each of these would
have a regional football association (**RFA**). Every single club in the pyramid
would be a member of one of these **RFA**s. This means every club has a very
clear destination when being relegated from either the first or second tier.

Each **RFA** has responsibility for administering their own league autonomously,
in whatever way they see fit. The only requirement is that they produce 1st,
2nd and 3rd placed teams as promotion candidates at the end of each season, and
that they accept between zero and three of those teams back into their league
the following season, along with between zero and three relegated teams from
above.

Managing the challenges that come with that variability is the responsibility of
the **RFA**. The question of whether there are other tiers below the third in
any given region, and the responsibility for administering these leagues, is
entirely down to the **RFA** in question.
