While this restructure would not necessitate any change in the structure of the
cup competitions, the creation of clear regions might provide some opportunities
to create a more interesting ecosystem of cup competitions.


### A Regionalised League Cup

If we have four separate Regional Football Associations (**RFA**s), and every
club is a member of one of these, then we can use this to structure the early
rounds of the League Cup. In fact, we can allow each **RFA** to conduct their
own regional cup at the start of the season, providing a winner to then compete
in the League Cup proper.

This would give us four regional champions, plus the European qualifiers, who
would sit out the regional cups. At present, this would add up to eight teams
which would fit nicely into a cup format, but in the event of Scotland gaining
an extra European place, the lowest-seeded European qualifier could be required
to play a playoff against the winners of their region - or alternatively simply
the two lowest-seeded of the nine clubs could play a playoff round.

Conducting the early rounds of the League Cup in this way would provide clubs
with a chance of winning some early season silverware, as well as the
opportunity to play some local matches in the summer evenings. As the regional
cups would be minor trophies, the finals would not need to be played at neutral
grounds. This could even be used as an opportunity to experiment with "Davis Cup
rules" for home advantage - whoever had home advantage last time the teams met
in the competition, they are away this time.


### An anti-regionalised Scottish Cup

The one time football fans really want to travel to the other side of the
country is for a one-off match, to see their team face an opposition they've
never met before. Regionalising the early stages of the League Cup might reduce
some of these opportunities, and to compensate we could modify the Scottish Cup
draw procedures so that in the early rounds (i.e. before the Premier League
teams enter), clubs from the same region cannot be drawn together. This would
guarantee fans of small clubs an interesting tie in the Scottish Cup, against a
club they do not normally face in league or League Cup action.
