### The National Team

In 1998, the Scottish Premier League was born. It was supposed to launch
Scottish football into a new era of untold wealth and international television
audiences.

While that bright future has scarcely materialised for our clubs, Scottish
football fans have come to remember 1998 much more clearly as the year when the
men's national team competed in a major tournament finals for the last time in
at least two generations of footballers. Barry Ferguson, James McFadden, Darren
Fletcher and so many others have all come and gone without once having the
opportunity to compete on a major stage internationally.

Could it be that our grand plan to enrich a few of our clubs by excluding the
rest, has restricted opportunities for young Scottish players to compete at the
highest level our leagues can muster? We talk a lot about elite pathways, but
elite footballers do not always emerge in their early teens. Our most successful
player of this generation was playing at amateur side Queen's Park as a
19-year-old. 18 teams instead of 12 playing at the top level would provide 50%
more opportunities for Scottish players to gain experience at this level. 


### Increased Variety

Under the current structure, each team plays every other team in the league four
times a season. This becomes repetitive and dull for fans, and fans
overwhelmingly want larger leagues with only two games a season against each
team. This structure satisifes that demand, providing fans with increased
variety and less repetition.


### More Local Fixtures

Outside of the top tier, the regionalisation of the leagues will provide more
local fixtures for smaller clubs; reducing travel costs and enhancing gate
receipts through increased away supports. Clubs are more likely to compete in
the same league as their local rivals, providing regular derby matches which
capture the imagination of their communities.


### Eliminating Stratification

Scottish football is currently stratified in several different tiers. With our
proposal, a club like Arbroath might find themselves in the same league as
Huntly. Their supporters might balk at this idea - after all, they are at
present a much bigger club than Huntly. But is there really such a difference?
Are Arbroath three tiers above Huntly because they are a much better team, or
are they a much better team because they are three tiers higher?

The current structure restricts opportunities to play at a high level to only a
small number of clubs. It creates a hierarchy and inequality that reduces
competition, creates repetition and sucks the life out of the sport.

If clubs which are currently separated by multiple layers of promotion and
relegation were to suddenly find themselves in the same league, there would
doubtless be a wide gulf in quality to begin with, but over time the better
players would be spread around more clubs, with more novice players gaining the
opportunity to play alongside and learn from them.
